[MUSIC]
>> Speaker 1: So now that we know
a little bit about creating schemas, and
I say a little bit,
I mean it's just a little bit.
There's way more to this.
But again, that's a whole separate thing.
I could talk about Mongo and
Mongoose for a week.
We know just enough to
get started with our API.
So now that we do know that much,
we'll use JSON
again to blueprint how our resources
are gonna look just like we did before.
So remember we've got three resources,
users, posts and categories.
So I wrote some JSON down here to
let you see what that looks like.
So users, for now, all they have
are user names, that's it, and
they have to be unique.
So here's an example what
a user resource will look like.
So an object with a user name and
a string.
Posts, they have a few things,
four things actually.
So they have a title and
if you just look at the value you can kind
of figure out what its type is, right?
This is obviously a string.
It has text, so this is
the actually text of the blog post.
If you look at the value,
it's obviously a string.
Author property, so
the person who wrote this, if you look at
this then, it's obviously an object ID.
That's it's type, it's object ID.
We have an array that's called categories,
which is spelled wrong, but categories,
and it is an array, a type of array, that
has types of objects IDs inside of it.
So it an array of object IDs.
>> Speaker 1: So
we went over that so object IDs are this
type and we already told you in arrays you
can put whatever you want in there.
>> Speaker 1: So
looking at these blueprints, just
looking at the data that we spent out,
you kinda know what these types are.
And then for categories, all it has is
a name, and it's a string, obviously.
And it has to be unique.
So a category is a name and
it has be unique,
you can't have more than one
category with the same name.
Doesn't make sense to do that.
User names must be unique.
Titles and posts,
I guess they should be unique,
you shouldn't have two blog
posts with the same title.
I don't know why you would do that.
>> Speaker 1: The blog post content,
I don't think that needs to be unique.
I guess you could if you want to
stop somebody from writing the same
blog post twice with a different title,
I guess you could do that.
It's up to you.
But then the two important ones are,
these are object IDs.
And if you wanted to you can go ahead and
add metadata on there if you want to like
last seen, updated at career dot, although
I'm pretty sure Mongoose should put that
stuff on there, at least I thought I did.
I thought I put the updated or
created at properties and stuff on there.
I think it does.
I don't think it's showing
up in Mongo though.
>> Speaker 1: So looking at
the actual values of the adjacent above,
we can infer what type of properties,
or what type their properties
are when we're creating our schemas.
So again, when we start creating
these schemas if you get lost and
you're like what's this type again?
Just come look at the value and just read
it like, that's a string, that's a string,
these are object IDs, these are strings.
>> Speaker 1: So any questions on that?
Cuz now you're about.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: We have a bunch kinda
rolling in here.
>> Speaker 1: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: One question was about what
about using things like using
node-uuid to namespace things, so
I think his idea is, instead of using the
built-in object ID that they're using, can
you tell it how to format that object ID?
>> Speaker 1: I don't know of a way
of how you can tell it to format the
object ID, but there's nothing stopping
you from using node-uuid to attach
another ID to your schema and index that.
So there's nothing wrong with that.
It's weird cuz like I had this
conversation with like five people
like a week ago, the same thing, and I
wanted to know what there concerns are as
far as like having another unique
identifier other then an object ID.
Cuz I can't think of like something that
would concern me but they obviously know
something that I don't know so
I wanna know what they're thinking so
I would love to talk to that
person who made that question.
Any other questions?
>> Speaker 2: I think
I'm not sure I understand this one maybe,
can you specify a type object ID for
a particular collection?
Like an author needs an object ID
that belongs to a user document?
>> Speaker 1: So an author needs, can
you specify a type object ID to a what?
>> Speaker 2: Particular collection.
>> Speaker 1: To a particular
collection.
>> Speaker 1: I'm not too sure if I follow
you or if I'm just over thinking it, but a
type object ID to a particular collection.
>> Speaker 2: They might be asking
can you specify the types of a collection?
Collection of authors.
>> Speaker 1: No,
a collection itself is not a type.
So the only types, so
you have all the built-in,
well most of the built-in JavaScript
types, so string, number, boolean, buffer,
those are all built in to JavaScript.
But then you have the types that
are built in to Mongoose which belong
in the mongoose.schema.types object.
There's object ID,
there's one that's called mixed,
which means a smorgasbord of any type.
But I'm pretty sure you cannot just say I
want the owner to be the type of owner,
or something like that.
The way you do that is you pass in
an object ID, what they reference,
to the collection that it belongs to.
But you can't just say owner right here.
If that was the question, I think.
>> Speaker 2: Can
you add custom functions to your models?
>> Speaker 1: Yes,
we're gonna get there
when we get to query.
So you can totally do that.
>> Speaker 2: Is there a possibility of
object ID collisions,
if you have MongoDB running on
multiple machines?
>> Speaker 1: If you have MongoDB running
on multiple issues, if you have the same
database running on multiple machines,
then I think you're fine.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: If you want to change your
scheme, is that it, schema,
do you have to kind of re-spin
all your current data into the new schema?
>> Speaker 1: Yeah.
I thought you were just referring
to code advisory question, and
I thought you were referring to
the question I was talking about.
So yeah, as far as the object ID
collision, no, if you have Mongo running
on, the same database running on multiple
machines, I guess maybe you, I dunno,
you shredded your database, maybe?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
that's what they're asking.
>> Speaker 1: Is that
what they're asking for?
No, you should be fine.
So I don't think you'll
have a problem with it.
>> Speaker 2: Then they're thinking like
if you're using that as
your user ID identifier,
if you have Catastrophic.
>> Speaker 1: No,
you should be fine.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Speaker 1: Yeah, you should be fine.
What you were saying is, if you
change the schema do you have to, so
you were talking about like a migration.
Do I have to take everything out and put.
>> Speaker 2: Like my business lives
are changed.
>> Speaker 1: No, it's fine.
It's just, if you change your schema,
and you already have data that was using
the old schema, right, it's not going
to go re-validate all that stuff.
It's not gonna be like,
now this old data's not following
the same validation, right?
That may be good or bad.
I'm not sure.
>> Speaker 2: It just sits there.
>> Speaker 1: It'll just sit there.
So you gotta go.
>> Speaker 2: It's only data coming in
that it validates.
>> Speaker 1: Right, right.
There's no migration.
So you can mainly set up
migration if you wanted to.
Or, I mean,
a good thing is like having replication.
And you do stuff with the replicated set,
so.
Okay.
>> Speaker 3: Another question was,
they wanted to know if
you've tried Orion DB, and
they'd like to hear your opinion on it.
>> Speaker 1: I haven't tried Orion DB,
it's literally like number three
on my list of things to do.
So I don't have any opinion on it
other than if it's on my list,
then it must be really good cuz I
only put good things on my list.
[LAUGH] So I wanna check it out.
I don't have any opinions.
If anyone else has used it before I would
like to know because I heard it was
awesome.
>> [NOISE]
>> Speaker 1: Is that it?
We all caught up?
>> Speaker 2: I think so.
They're just mentioning MongoDB doesn't
scale well horizontally so that's,
I guess you wouldn't be doing
that is what they're saying?
>> Speaker 1: I mean,
I guess you could say that.
But it all comes down to like, yeah,
relatively speaking it doesn't,
yeah, I agree.
But that doesn't mean
it doesn't do it well,
just if you compare it to other things.
It's not meant for everything,
[LAUGH] so I'll just say that.
I'm not defending Mongo but I'm also not
pushing it down anybody's throat, but
it's definitely not meant for everything.